中文摘要：数字信息时代，如何深度挖掘非结构化文本数据的价值日益重要，大语言模型的出现为此提供了新的契机。本文首先论述了大语言模型的优势及其对实证研究的赋能作用，并分析了传统文献中词典法、文本相似度、监督式机器学习等文本分析方法的局限性。在此基础上，借助Stata命令chatgpt，通过一系列案例展示了GPT在提高文本数据处理效能、优化文本指标刻画能力、增强文本指标衡量精度以及丰富文本指标信息含量的核心优势。本文认为大语言模型将极大释放非结构化文本数据价值，在推动金融与会计领域实证研究中具有巨大潜力。
机器翻译版：In the digital information age, how to deeply mine the value of unstructured text data is increasingly important, and the emergence of large language models provides new opportunities for this. This article first discusses the advantages of large language models and their enabling role in empirical research, and analyzes the limitations of text analysis methods such as lexicon, text similarity, and supervised machine learning in traditional literature. On this basis, with the help of Stata command chatgpt, a series of cases demonstrate the core advantages of GPT in improving text data processing efficiency, optimizing text indicator characterization capabilities, enhancing text indicator measurement accuracy, and enriching text indicator information content. This article believes that large language models will greatly unleash the value of unstructured text data and have great potential in promoting empirical research in the field of finance and accounting.
GPT版：In the digital information era, the importance of deeply mining the value of unstructured text data is increasingly prominent, and the emergence of large language models provides a new opportunity for this. This paper first discusses the advantages of large language models and their empowering role in empirical research, and analyzes the limitations of text analysis methods such as dictionary method, text similarity, and supervised machine learning in traditional literature. Based on this, with the help of the Stata command chatgpt, a series of cases demonstrate the core advantages of GPT in improving text data processing efficiency, optimizing text indicator characterization ability, enhancing text indicator measurement accuracy, and enriching the information content of text indicators. This paper believes that large language models will greatly release the value of unstructured text data and have great potential in promoting empirical research in the fields of finance and accounting.